Pretoria - The Limpopo department of Co-operative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) partnering with the Department of Health have vowed to have no deaths during the province’s initiation season 2022 that started across the province last week. After a two-year hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic more than 100 000 initiates are expected to register in over 600 approved schools in the province. Briefing the media Coghsta MEC, Basikopo Makamu, flanked by MEC for Health Dr Phophi Ramathuba and Mopani District Commissioner, Major-General Willy Mashava, said that even though three initiates already feel sick in a school in Phalaborwa all security and health systems were set for a flawless season. Makamu said: “Since the beginning of the season last week, we can report that three initiates in the Mopani District had been taken to the Maphutha Malatji Hospital due to complications over the weekend. All three initiates have been discharged. An initiate in the Sekhukhune region was taken to the Middleburg Hospital, then transferred to the Polokwane Provincial Hospital. The initiate is going to be discharged today. “The 2022 Initiation schools season is upon us. It began on June 17 and runs until July 23, and while we have already accounted for many initiates at initiation schools across the province, we are aware more will be joining them as the Department of Education’s academic calendar closes for the quarter on Friday the June 24.” Makamu warned that those that operated without permits would be arrested. “There will be zero tolerance for people who want to take chances by running initiation schools without permits. As we have done in the past, we will be working with our law enforcement agencies, to prevent further unnecessary loss of young lives and also to ensure that the rights of these young boys and girls are not violated,” Makamu said. Ramthuba added that health officials were deployed at all the schools to monitor the situation. Pretoria News