Pretoria - It’s a classic case of a sad story with a happy ending, when three donkeys that could not relocate with their owner when she had to move from her farm to a smaller property for her safety, found a new home. For Abby, Toetsie and Jack, their turn of luck is thanks to the Wet Nose Equestrian Centre, a new unit of the Wet Nose Animal Rescue Centre which rescues horses, donkeys and other farm animals. “We received a heartfelt call from a woman in Balmoral who lives alone on her farm. Due to safety concerns she has to move to a smaller and safer property. This left her with three donkeys that could not move with her – Abby, Toetsie and Jack, who have been part of her family for six years. “Toetsie and Jack were adopted by her family from Wet Nose in 2016, and Abby joined them shortly afterwards. She explained her situation and with tears in her eyes asked us to find a new home for her donkeys,” said Wet Nose Equestrian Centre manager, Roelan Grabie. She said the donkeys were adopted last week by a woman who lives near their previous home. “The donkeys found a home… They are going to a very good home. “The new owner will make contact with their previous owner because she wants the her to stay in touch with the donkeys. Luckily they stay near each other.” Grabie said the donkeys are between 8 and 9 years old, and as Grabie put it, “they’re not that young anymore”. Grabie said the donkeys have been content since they were brought to the centre last Friday. “They are sweet and love attention,” she said. “They love being scratched and come to you for their treats. We also groom them every morning.” For animals to be adopted at the centre, potential owners need to download the form on the centre’s website. “You need to fill in an application and our inspectors will do a full home inspection to see if the property is suitable for the animal they are applying for. “If the inspectors give the thumbs up that your property is suitable, you come to our offices and do an adoption contract with us and pay for it.” Wet Nose also stables horses and donkeys, and has an indoor arena where they do shows which people can attend and enjoy. Grabie said: “We also rent out our arenas for shows, and we have sponsorships that pay a certain amount towards our variety of animals. “It helps us to provide food and accommodation for the animals. “We also do birthday parties and events, and all the money raised goes towards taking care of the animals.” The centre has also opened the doors of its animal clinic, providing the community with affordable health care for their pets. Pretoria News