Tshwarelo Hunter Mogakanethe Pretoria - The SAPS’s Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) has met with former spy boss Arthur Fraser to discuss “the details of his case” and “get clarity on the contents” of his Farmgate affidavit. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Thandi Mbambo confirmed the meeting to the Pretoria News yesterday but declined to reveal specific details, citing the sensitivity of the case. “The meeting was part of an ongoing investigation where Hawks investigators had to meet with Mr Fraser, so as to discuss the details of his case as well as get clarity on the contents of his affidavit, and give an update on the progress made so far,” said Mbambo. She added that the sensitivity of the case did not allow for details of their discussions with Fraser to be made public. “Unfortunately, we can’t comment on any details pertaining to issues relating to the Hawks’ investigation and at this stage we are not able to indicate how long the investigation will take, as this is a complex case that would require extensive investigation and broad consultation,” she said. This week Fraser said he had given the Hawks further information that could help them uncover the truth in their investigation of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s alleged concealment of a burglary at his Phala Phala farm in the Waterberg, Limpopo. “Today, being June 15, 2022, Mr Arthur Fraser met with the Hawks in order to assist them with their investigation into his complaint against His Excellency, President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa. “He has furnished the Hawks with additional information and details to enable them to do their work. Mr Fraser appreciates the professionalism and the speed with which the Hawks have responded to his complaint,” said Fraser’s lawyer, Eric Mabuza, in a statement. Political analyst Professor Sipho Seepe said Fraser was doing good work to promote the country’s principles of justice and equality before the law. “Mr Fraser is a good example of what President Ramaphosa should have done after he learnt about the burglary at his farm. “He (Ramaphosa) should have opened a (criminal) case and followed up with the investigators to check how his complaint was going. Instead, we hear excuse after excuse which now exposes the hypocrisy within our law enforcement agencies. “Mr Fraser is correctly assisting the investigators, so that tomorrow they don’t drop the investigation and say ‘we don’t have enough information’. “Our hopes are pinned on the Hawks to demonstrate that they are truly an agency that seeks truth and justice. This is a priority crime that should take priority to investigate. We await the Hawks’ report on their findings,” said Seepe. He further condemned analysts who were “doing their best to ensure that Ramaphosa is not held accountable”. “It is appalling to witness so-called political analysts shifting the focus from the president. Instead of continuing to ask why Ramaphosa concealed a crime and continued to do paid work while he is a leader of the Cabinet, you have analysts asking who Fraser is. “During the R1 billion Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, Ramaphosa was the one … asking members of the public to come forward with any information that can stop criminality involving government leaders. “Here is Fraser saying to the police that he has information about a crime that took place at the president’s farm. And what does Fraser get? A panel of people who doubt his motives instead of looking at his facts,” Seepe said. Pretoria News