InQfive Muic has announced the release date of the latest album from its founder InQfve, known as The Special One. Titled Deeper Than Politics Vol 2, the album will be available on all digital platforms worldwide from July 8. The dance and deep house album is fused with soulfulness and a little bit of tech. ‘“Music lovers can expect to be taken on a journey of 15 tracks on this album,” said InQfive, real name Tshepang Mpinga. On the opening track Summer Morning, the producer, DJ and recording artist collaborated with Ladi Adiosoul to set the tone for a journey into some fine deep house tunes. Other vocalists featured on the album are Dust N, Kutloano and Lezza. All songs on the album were composed and compiled by InQfive and reflect on the experience he acquired since he ventured into the industry in 2013. The 25-year-old was born in Daveyton and raised in Boksburg. He is one of the most consistent, youngest and better music producers in the country. The album is also a return to the basics for InQfive, who specialised in deep house in his early days as a music producer before venturing into Afro tech with distinction and showing impressive versatility. But back then, he was not always InQfive. He used to go by the name of DJ Triger. “I decided to change to InQfive because I wanted to promote a different and unique brand to people. I actually named myself InQfive while I was star-gazing at midnight,” he said with a laugh. “My music is more of a storytelling with dark keys and soothing chords to stimulate the emotions. Most of my creative process happens at night, especially late hours when it’s quiet,” he said. The producer oozes confidence when asked what sets him apart from his peers. He said: “I have a unique timeless touch that I apply to my productions. There is always something to remember when listening to my songs. On any given day you can press play and have a good time. “Deeper Than Politics means everything to me and being a deep house album means that people should preach music more than politics and that music should unite us as music lovers, and not separate us because of politics happening within the music industry. “The message I’m trying to send to a listener it’s to change the perspective of how music can sound and that there’s always a room for everyone; it doesn’t matter what music genre you doing; you can always reach out to people and heal souls with music.” He said it took him almost a year to compile the album and actually get the right songs to fit the theme and the way he wanted it to sound. InQfive also expressed his gratitude to the artists he collaborated with, who essentially helped him to put his thoughts into action in the new album. Asked what are some of the stand-out tracks in the album, he singled out the opening track, Sunday Morning, as by far his best single in the new project. Pretoria News