Pretoria - The inspection and maintenance of fire hydrants in Tshwane has received a boost, thanks to a partnership between the metro and Hollard Insurance. The two parties yesterday said they had come together to ensure the cleaning, number marking and testing water pressure of 3 500 of the 25 000 hydrants in the metro. Faulty hydrants will be recorded for referral to the relevant department. Hollard said this was important for the insurance industry because often, when fires were reported, emergency authorities arrived at the scene only to find that fire hydrants were not working or missing, or simply did not have water. Its chief executive, Nash Omar, said: “Over the years the insurance industry has suffered millions of rand in losses because of what was supposed to be a small fire.” At the launch of the partnership was Tshwane mayor Randall Williams and members of the various political parties in council. Said Williams: “The fire hydrant initiative is driven by the mounting concern of fire risk in urban centres. “Recently, we have seen scores of devastating fires destroying public facilities, such as Parliament, Charlotte Maxeke Hospital and the University of Cape Town. “Working together with Hollard, 15 unemployed youths from Tshwane were selected and trained with the requisite technical skills to ensure the proper inspection of fire hydrants. “Hollard Insurance has committed R1.3 million towards the training, stipends and travel allowance for the youths. “The City welcomes this investment in the talent of our young people.” Looking at the youngsters entrusted to do the job, Williams said: “This diverse group of young people expressed excitement over this project, particularly with the skills and experience they are gaining.” Williams said he was pleased that through this initiative they were able to empower a deserving group of young people; especially because it was important that they always incorporated youth in the work that they did, particularly on the eve of Youth Day. Pretoria News