Pretoria - The contractor appointed by the City of Tshwane to upgrade Rooiwal waste water treatment plant has allegedly abandoned the project. A report is expected to be released into allegations of tender irregularities in the first phase of a R2 billion contract in a fortnight’s time. ActionSA caucus leader in council Anniruth Kissoonduth accused the contractor of failing “to fulfil its responsibilities” to Phase 1 of the refurbishment project, which was started early in 2020. In March this year, the City reported it was progressing well, with the primary settling tank 88% complete and digesters 68% complete. Kissoonduth said: “We have recently learnt that the contractor at Rooiwal has abandoned the site. This in addition to further reductions in the 2022/23 budget for phase 1 and no budget allocation for phase 2 of the project.” He also said mayor Randall Williams would not be in a position to table a report into allegations of tender irregularities in council on June 30. The report was commissioned following concerns raised about the supply chain processes for the phase 1 tendering, and the probe was expected to be completed within 90 days from March 31, 2022. At the time, MMC for Finance Peter Sutton said: “This contract was previously challenged in court but was successfully defended. A formal investigation assists in further scrutiny. Should this investigation identify irregularities the appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.” Kissoonduth said he had recently written to Williams, reminding him of the council resolution on the report about the tender. “We are deeply disappointed to learn that the report will not be tabled as per the Council resolution, without even providing any new timelines of the submission of the report. This after the executive mayor’s grandstanding when we tabled the motion.” He said Williams cited administrative reasons for the report submission. According to Kissoonduth, the delay for submission showed lack of urgency from the mayor to address the issue of Hammanskraal water. “As ActionSA, we demand the executive mayor to present the report at the upcoming council meeting to provide an official update of this project. Hammanskraal water has for over 16 years been unfit for human and animal consumption. This has led to water provision using tankers, which added a further financial burden to an already squeezed municipality,” he said. For years Rooiwal plant, owing to its lack of capacity to purify wastewater, resulting in the sludge being discharged into the Apies River, had been identified as the source of dirty water consumed by people in Hammanskraal and surrounds, . City chief of staff Jordan Griffiths said: “The City has placed the contractor on terms, as we have not been happy with performance. Either they must cede or we may terminate the contract.” He said the executive mayor was taking the “matter seriously and had requested an external investigator to be appointed to look into the tender, this triggered a supply chain process so there will be a delay on the report”. “It is a pity that ActionSA did not raise this in the coalition structures that exist.” ActionSA also questioned the appointment of companies owned by businessman Edwin Sodi, lamenting their alleged lack of experience in infrastructure projects such the Rooiwal upgrade. Pretoria News