Pretoria - The Sediba Sa Thuto Primary School in Mamelodi Extension 18 remains closed for a second consecutive week after parents and the community shut it down, citing overcrowding. Their complaints include lack of sanitation, chairs and tables and proper roads leading to the school. They were particularly unhappy that the children had to cross a river to get to school. Parent Mmathapelo Sibasa said this was the second time this year that they had shut down the school due to overcrowding.  “Our requests fall on deaf ears. We have been complaining, but no one is helping. This school has been here for more than 12 years, but it is a mobile classroom only school. “Our children are taught in containers. They sit on the floor as there are no chairs. There’s no proper sanitation.” Sibasa said overcrowding continued to be a challenge. “Classrooms have more than 70 children each, some 75 or 78. Our concern is the spread of Covid in the school, and as parents we are not informed about those cases. We have slow learners and teachers are not able to identify and give them special treatment. “The department is ignoring our calls to bring in more containers.” Sibasa said some teachers were even teaching the children out in the open because of the overcrowded classrooms. Parents are demanding a brick-and-mortar school instead of mobile classrooms. Gauteng Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said they had been made aware of the closure of Sediba Sa Thuto by parents who chased the teachers and learners away. “The department is in constant talks with the community in addressing mobile classrooms and toilets – delivery is imminent.” Mabona implored the community to refrain from closing schools due to infrastructure challenges, as this disrupted teaching and learning. DA provincial education spokesperson Khume Ramulifho conducted an oversight visit to the school yesterday and promised the community that he would communicate with MEC Panyaza Lesufi and revert back to them. “I will submit questions to the legislature as to when the department will be building a brick-and-mortar school.” Pretoria News