Pretoria - Five Limpopo MECs have been dumped from the ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) in a move which makes them vulnerable to a potential cabinet reshuffle. In a surprise decision which may have far-reaching political implications, Public Works MEC Dr Dickson Masemola, Treasury MEC Seaparo Sekoati, Agriculture MEC Nandi Ndalane, Education MEC Polly Boshielo and Sports MEC Thandi Moraka were voted out of the governing party’s provincial executive by delegates to the Limpopo ANC provincial conference which ended yesterday. Although former provincial secretary Soviet Lekganyane snuck in as number 26 of the 30-member PEC, the five have been marginalised by re-elected provincial chairperson and Premier Stan Mathabatha’s victorious faction. Masemola lost the chairperson position to Mathabatha in a clean sweep on Saturday. Former PEC spokesperson Donald Selamolela was also left out, paving the way for Peter Mokaba region spokesperson Jimmy Machaka, who made number nine on the additional members’ list. According to party insiders, Machaka is expected to replace Selamolela as provincial ANC spokesperson. The sidelining of Masemola and his supporters came despite Mathabatha pledging to work with them to rebuild the ANC in his victory speech on Saturday, where he said a cabinet reshuffle was not necessary. Mathabatha promised to keep the momentum of the province despite assertions of the reshuffle. He said: “I am going to talk to comrade Dickson (Masemola) and other comrades to see how we take this province far. “We want to congratulate all the comrades who participated because when we go to conferences and contests, it’s not about us as individuals, but it’s about the mandate they have. “In the ANC you are invited to leadership and do not choose to be a leader. “I want to say to the comrades that participated that they have not lost. It is just the beginning,” said Mathabatha. Those that made the cut include Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba as additional member No  1, former Transport MEC Makoma Makhupetja as second while MEC for the Department of Economic Development and Tourism, Thabo Mokone, took the third spot of the list. Others include Social Development MEC Nkankareng Rakgoale and current Transport and Community Safety Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya. Minister of Communications Nkhumbudzo Ntshaveni also snuck in, making the list at number 28. President Cyril Ramaphosa closed off the conference yesterday.  Pretoria News