Tshwarelo Hunter Mogakane State Capture Commission chairperson Justice Raymond Zondo has found against SABC’s former acting General Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) Hlaudi Motsoeneng, despite the latter's attempts to provide clarity about his business dealings at the public broadcaster. During his appearance at the State Capture Commission two years ago, Motsoeneng was grilled on his visit to the Gupta compound, where he went to introduce SABC's new GCEO Lulama Mokhobo. "We enjoyed curry there, big time, chairperson, together with Mme Luluma. I was acting as the GCEO. It was part of the handover (to the new GCEO). I said to her, 'Look, compliance.' They informed me that there is this relationship between TNA and the SABC, but we as SABC are not complying because there is no MOU on this matter," he said. Motsoeneng was rebutting Mokhobo's testimony that she was surprised when they arrived at the Gupta's residential property in Saxonwold. "She was very happy and I was very happy. It was breakfast, chairperson. We went and ate breakfast. They (Guptas) proposed like any business people. I meet people in the street who give me proposals," he said. Motsoeneng told Zondo that he was trying to capture the private sector, and not the other way around. "The same goes for Multichoice. They didn’t approach us for the SABC news channel. I approached them, but I wasn’t the first person to do so. They were first approached by the GCEO Mme Luluma Mokhobo and board chairperson Dr Ben Ngubane because there was pressure that SABC was not competing in a 24-hour news channel. It could not kick off because of the financials. I approached Multichoice," said Motsoeneng before being cut short. Zondo, who said Motsoeneng would testify about approaching Multichoice bosses at a later stage, asked him to revert to the Gupta visit. "Tell me more about the curry. Was it lamb or beef curry?" asked Zondo, to audible laughter. However, in his final report, Zondo said "it was put" to the commission that Motsoeneng acted above the law. He recommended that law enforcement agencies investigate Motsoeneng and Mokhobo. Pretoria News