Pretoria - Interventions have been made to resolve electricity problems at the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) since students embarked on a protest on Sunday night. The students of Muzinda residence in Pretoria West said they were fed up with the prolonged and repeated power outages. They said refusing to attend lectures and preventing others from going was the answer. Yesterday, Student Representative Council member Keamogetswe Masike said the university had assessed the situation at the residence after students pleaded with management to fix the problem. “A new breaker was installed, and it was said that the old breaker did not supply enough voltage required for the residence. That is why, from time to time, there were power cuts.” Masike said they planned to confront another residences that subjected students to dire living conditions. “We are doing this because the management and service providers have prioritised profit over the education of a black child. They do not check and make sure if it’s conducive for the students,” he said. “Students are still intimidated and victimised for speaking out against service providers, who threaten them when they protest for basic human rights. “As the SRC, we want to protect the integrity and image of the university. It is our top priority to do so, and we want to reposition the university to become one of the greatest institutions in the country. “We are still open to addressing and resolving issues that affect our students,” he said. He that even after their successful intervention at Muzinda residence, they were still getting calls from students with similar challenges at other residences. University spokesperson Phaphama Tshisikhawe said all was well at Muzinda and that the City of Tshwane had concluded work at the residence. During the week, Tshisikhawe said, mobile showers and generators were made available to assist the students at the residence. During the protest, the students blocked entrances to the building and said that, among their problems, they were unable to submit assignments on time or study for exams as there was no electricity, and food in fridges got spoiled. They also said that bathing in cold water every day was unbearable. Pretoria News