Pretoria - Instead of another dialogue or speech on the significance of mental health, internationally-acclaimed choreographer Paul Modjadji’s directorial film The Deal brings the creative spotlight on Alzheimer’s disease and brain awareness, with the help of local acting powerhouses. Modjadji’s first offering premiered at the Nelson Mandela Foundation in Houghton on June 14, just two days shy of Youth Day. The Hammanskraal-bred choreographer said it was apt that they were launching the film at the Nelson Mandela Foundation on what was observed as Youth Month in South Africa. “Tata Nelson Mandela was a great defender of human rights and equality for all humans. I made this film as an ode to South Africa, because even though we are a nation inflicted with many challenges, we never shy away from owning and speaking out about our ills. We never sweep anything under the rug.” The film, which follows the life of 18-year-old Thandeka, played by renowned poet and actress Botlhale Boikanyo, tackles a mixed bag of societal issues such as gender-based violence, transgenerational transactional relationships, access to education, dementia and mental health, as well as absent fathers. Legendary actress Abigail Kubeka, one of the leading actresses alongside Dr Jerry Mofokeng wa Makgetha, praised the film-makers for telling this story, sharing that it was long overdue. “It pains me deeply that I have lived on this earth for 82 years, and only when I landed this role at the age of 81 did I learn that dementia was an illness and not a normal path of ageing. I am so relieved and overjoyed to know this information and I pray that God gives me enough strength to live long enough to educate as many as possible about this illness.” Lead actress Boikanyo said she was happy with how the film had been written and how it had come out. “I am so sad and yet so hopeful to see films about girls such as Thandeka being told in this light. A lot of the time we judge young girls and women and never look beyond the circumstances that push them to make such brave and hard calls.” She further said she was proud of her character’s courageous spirit. World-acclaimed poet, actress, theatre director and founder of Her Story International Women’s Theatre Festival, Napo Masheane, who plays the character of Thandeka’s mother, also praised the film for sharing so honestly and authentically the lived experiences of women across South Africa. “There are so many exhausted, depressed ... and ill women in our country who are burdened by single parenting, caregiving for their families, that their own dreams have to be packed away. This, too, is a form of abuse on women. Playing this character was hard, because we all know women like this. They are our mothers, sisters, neighbours, they are us.” The Deal will be available for streaming on Showmax during Women’s Month in August. Pretoria News