Polokwane - Limpopo ANC chairperson Stan Mathabatha has swept to victory at the provincial conference, defeating his challenger Dr Dickson Masemola to secure a third term as provincial party leader. He retained his position at the 10th provincial conference held at the Ranch Resort outside Polokwane this weekend when his slate got a clean sweep. Mathabatha received 781 votes as opposed to Masemola’s 389. Masemola, who is Public Works and infrastructure MEC, was not present in the plenary hall when results were announced this afternoon. Former provincial secretary, Soviet Lekganyane was seen as the biggest loser after failing to beat a lesser known challenger, Rueben Madanzhe who defeated him by 717 votes to 451. Lekganyane was in the losing slate that also saw Florence Radzilani defeat Mopani mayor Pule Shayi by 418 votes. Radzilani, who was seeking re-election, got 791 votes while Shayi received 373. Basikopo Makamu saw off Levhuwani Magaraba by 797 votes to 365 votes and retained his position as deputy secretary. Current Peter Mokaba region treasurer Nakedi Sibanda-Kekana won the provincial treasurer position. She defeated Faith Chauke by 786 votes to 375. Masemola’s dejected slate and its supporters were not present in the hall when the results were announced. In his acceptance speech after the announcement, Mathabatha congratulated Masemola and other losing candidates and promised to work with them to take the province forward. He said “I am going to talk to comrade Dickson (Masemola) and other comrades to see how we take this province so far. “We want to congratulate all the comrades who participated because when we go to conferences and contests, it’s not about us as individuals, but it's about the mandate. “In the ANC you are invited to leadership and do not choose to be a leader. I want to say to the comrades that participated that they have not lost. It is just the beginning,” said Mathabatha. Nominations for additional members of the provincial executive committee (PEC) are expected tonight. mashudu.sadike@inl.co.za Pretoria News