Polokwane - The Limpopo ANC 10th conference finally got under way on Friday amid tensions caused by delays by the provincial executive committee (PEC) following delays over credentials of delegates at the Ranch Resort outside Polokwane. By 4pm there was uncertainty around the conference venue with half of the delegates having not arrived. Delegates that had arrived were seen chanting struggle songs outside the hall where about 1 200 people were expected to elect new leadership. The conference was expected to be opened by party treasurer general Paul Mashatile. The 10th Limpopo ANC provincial elective conference got underway in Polokwane. Provincial Chairperson and Premier Stan Mathabatha delivered his political report last night. Dr Dickson Masemola is challenging Mathabatha for the chairperson position. #LimpopoANC pic.twitter.com/aKp4rALaN1 Contesting the position of chairperson is Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha, who is seeking re-election for a third term as provincial ANC leader. Public Works MEC Dickson Masemola is challenging him. ANC conferences have been marred by violence in recent years. However, speaking at a press briefing earlier, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said they would ensure the conference would not collapse despite tensions outside the venue. All five Limpopo regions – Vhembe, Peter Mokaba, Sekhukhune, Norman Mashabane and Waterberg – are represented at the conference. While Mathabatha appeared to be the favourite to retain his position, Masemola was expected to put up a fight to dislodge him. One delegate who claimed to be supporting Mathabatha’s slate, called “Third Term”, said they were confident that he would win the party’s top job. “Masemola’s people are not even here. They are still lobbying at this hour. There won't be such a thing as contesting against Mathabatha. He will decline at the last minute because he just simply doesn't have numbers,” he said. However, another delegate from Norman Mashabane, said it was Masemola’s turn to lead the province. “Mathabatha has been at the helm for many years and he has nothing to show for it. There is no reason to support such,” he said. mashudu.sadike@inl.co.za Pretoria News