Pretoria - Mamelodi Sundowns celebrated their treble including their 12th league title win by parading their trophy in different areas of the City of Tshwane today. The football team began the parade early in the morning and had two routes for the celebrations and made various stops at schools, community halls, malls and colleges. The Mamelodi route covered Nellmapius, Eersterust, Silverton, Hatfield, Atteridgeville, Saulsville and Lotus Gardens. While the Hammanskraal route covered parts of Hammanskraal, Winterveldt, Mabopane, , Mmakau and Ga-Rankuwa. Supporters on Church Square as Mamelodi Sundowns team and staff arrive for the main celebrations of winning their 12th title. The team made visits to various parts of Pretoria to parade the trophies. @IOL @Masandawana #Sundowns #MamelodiSundowns pic.twitter.com/RpL1Nt7D5N The team made a stop at Kgotlelelang Primary School in Soshanguve Block T, and had a joyous moment not only with the learners but with the community as well. Learners at the school were even reminded to go back to class, as they surrounded the bus. They spent a few minutes at each place before proceeding to the next destination. The final stop for their main celebration was on Church Square in the Pretoria CBD. It was a colourful day filled with celebrations, music and excitement. On Church Square there was live entertainment from DJ Dijo, Legs On The Beat Entertainment, SPHEctacula and DJ Naves. Mamelodi Sundowns FC made a stop at Kgotlelelang Primary School in Soshanguve as part of their trophy parade in Tshwane. The team visit Mamelodi, Hammanskraal, Soshanguve in celebration #TheYellowParade @IOL #Sundowns #MamelodiSundowns #DownsParade @Masandawana pic.twitter.com/TnxQY36CJW The fans danced and sang along to the music that was played. The fans were out in their regalia with T-shirts, overalls and head wear to show appreciation to the team. The fans jumped and screamed with joy as the team arrived for the main celebrations. Letlhogonolo Lebese an excited fan said they were happy as Sundowns fans on winning the title. Tiisetso Khomotso said the team were doing the impossible and he was happy to be part of the celebrations. "We won the treble and its not the last time. We are still going to win more trophies, now we are aiming for the Club World Cup. "At least there is a trophy parade and we get to see the hard work the players and technical staff put in. Supporters on Church Square as Mamelodi Sundowns team and staff arrive for the main celebrations of winning their 12th title. The team made visits to various parts of Pretoria to parade the trophy. @IOL @Masandawana #Sundowns #MamelodiSundowns pic.twitter.com/wlllr7lA4k "As fans we are really happy, as you can see we are wearing our regalia with pride and joy." Stuart Mafoho said the team's win showed who is the best in the league and he wanted the team to win more trophies. "Now other teams’ supporters will not have anything to say but I am happy and proud of Sundowns." Itumeleng Kgwathisi congratulated the team and supporters and said may they move to another level and win more trophies. The Brazilians have been crowned treble champions after lifting the MTN8, successfully defend their premiership title and winning the Nedbank Cup. Pretoria News