Being in a life-threatening situation involving armed robbers is not something most of us want to think about, but we need to have a plan of action in case it happens, says Charnel Hattingh, head of marketing and communications at Fidelity ADT. As an armed response service provider, Fidelity ADT has first-hand knowledge of the prevalence of armed robberies and home invasions, and where and when these are likely to occur. “How you react when faced with a nervous, gun-toting criminal can save, or cost you, your life. All family members need to know what to do if uninvited guests come through the door intent on robbing you, or worse.” Read our latest Property360 digital magazine below  The most prevalent crimes involving armed criminals are home invasions, hijackings, and follow-home robberies. Hattingh says these are common scenarios:  She offers six tips on what to do in an armed robbery: Afterwards, you should press your panic button/phone to alert your armed response service provider and/or phone the police on 10111. Say if you need medical assistance.  You should also: “These are terrifying ordeals”, Hattingh says, adding that while it is not easy to keep a cool head when children and other loved ones are in harm’s way, one of the most important reactions is to stay calm. “The robbers are also nervous – maybe even on drugs, so the slightest wrong move or sudden movement can lead to shots being fired.” She stresses that falling victim to crime can be prevented. “Vigilance is important, as is good perimeter security and home security measures like activating outdoor beams when you get home and the alarm in areas of the home you are not using. Never allow strangers onto your property. Security systems should be linked to an armed response service provider and all systems must be regularly tested. “Prevention is better than cure. And, in the case of a traumatic armed home invasion, the long-term psychological effects can rob you of quality of life. Do all you can to keep criminals out of your home and make sure the family all know what to do if they are held up.” IOL BUSINESS