ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile has called for unity among those who would be contesting for leadership at the party’s Limpopo conference that kicked off at the Ranch Resort in Polokwane on Friday, saying differences were natural within the party. He was speaking to over 1200 delegates that had gathered to elect new leadership at its 10th conference. He said: “We expect exemplary behaviour worthy of emulation by others within our movement who are yet to hold their provincial conferences.  “We also expect delegates to this Conference to engage and debate issues robustly, without fear or favour; but to do so in a spirit of comradeship – accepting that we need each other more than ever before and that without the other we are weak. “Even as we differ, we must embrace each other as fellow comrades. We are not sworn enemies. We belong to one ANC. Let this reaffirm that the ANC in Limpopo is alive and that it leads.  “Equally, let us through our conduct show that Limpopo remains the undisputed home of the ANC we have come to know for more than 100 years,a disciplined ANC, a caring ANC and an ANC of the people.” Mashatile added that with the obstacles along the way, the party expected the conference to be a peaceful and a successful one.  “The people of this province and the country expect nothing less from the ANC. They are looking up to us, as the ANC, to provide sound leadership during these trying times of high unemployment, poverty and inequality, as well as the rising cost of living, food insecurity and a general state of despair currently engulfing our country. We are their only hope. We dare not disappoint them,” said Mashatile. The conference, at which provincial chairperson and premier Stan Mathabatha is seeking a third term as ANC leader kicked off on Friday and will end on Sunday when President Cyril Ramaphosa closes it.  Mathabatha is being challenged for the party’s top job in the province by Public Works MEC Dickson Masemola. In Masemola’s slate is current Mopani District mayor Pule Shayi as his deputy while current provincial ANC secretary Soviet Lekganyane is seeking re-election in the same line-up. Lesser known members from the Vhembe District, Livhuwani Legaraba and Faith Chauke, are contesting the positions of deputy secretary and treasurer respectively. In the other slate where Mathabatha is flanked by his current deputy chairperson Florence Radzilani in the same position and VBS accused and current treasurer Danny Msiza as provincial secretary “Comrades, the people of this province continue to see the ANC as a genuine custodian of their aspirations. We have seen this in successive elections where even as our electoral support declines, we continue to do better in this province. “We must never take this trust by our people for granted. We must continue to earn it. This 10th provincial conference of the ANC in Limpopo must be a Conference of ideas and clear programmes  to better the lives of the people. “It must not just be a conference to elect leadership. At all times we must remember that the ANC exists not only for itself, but also and most importantly the ANC exists to respond to the problems of people as a whole,” concluded Mashatile. The election of the top five were expected to take place on Friday night with the results announced on Saturday morning.