Pretoria - Residents have praised the metro police who busted two alleged drug dealers in possession of drugs in Ga-Rankuwa, and two other suspects in possession of a firearm and dangerous weapons in Hammanskraal at the weekend. Spokesperson for the Department of Tshwane Metro Police Department Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba said the officers were doing what they do every single day when they caught the suspects, therefore eradicating crime and protecting citizens. The Tshwane Metro Police drug unit members, working in Ga-Rankuwa, arrested the man and woman when they were responding to a complaint by community members about suspicious activities in a certain residence. “Upon arrival they found the two suspects with 500 ziplocks of heroine (nyaope), and they were arrested for dealing and possession of drugs. “In the other incident in region 2 sector 1, members were doing patrol duties in Hammanskraal when they spotted two suspicious men with a bag. “They tried to stop the two males but they ran away. The officers gave chase and managed to apprehend them. They were searched and found in possession of the illegal firearm and some dangerous weapons. These two were then arrested for possession of illegal firearms and dangerous weapons,” said Mahamba. He said the suspects will appear in court soon, and the department and the City were very proud of the officers for showing great leadership and courage in dealing with crime in Tshwane. Looking at the confiscated drugs, Lacosta Law said these days law enforcement authorities like the SA National Defence Force, the police and the metro police officers had been hard at work and deserved to be congratulated for a job well done. Community member Paepae Letlape said: “Well done Tshwane Metro Police Department. We Support your efforts. Without you our lives are in danger. God bless your team and good luck.” Lazaras Moropa and Nomvula Molato also encouraged the metro police to continue carrying out great work to make the country proud and safe for all who live in it. They said they wanted to hear and see such developments frequently to ensure that criminals were made to feel uncomfortable. Pretoria News