Pretoria - More than 250 emergency care ambulances in Gauteng were involved in accidents in various parts of the province in the past two years, and the provincial health department had to pay more than R8 million for repairs. The department also spent almost R100m on general maintenance and repairs of other ambulances. This was revealed by the Gauteng Health MEC Nomathemba Mokgethi in her written reply to questions by the DA’s health spokesperson Jack Bloom in the provincial legislature. According to Mokgethi, Gauteng, with the highest population of all provinces, at almost 15 million people, has 1 221 ambulances. Of these, 956 are used for intermediate life support, 30 for intensive care unit and 235 for multi-purpose use. Mokgethi said that 140 of these were not working due to various mechanical problems, breakdowns or are under repairs. She said that 167 accidents were reported to the loss and prevention control office in 2020 and 92 last year. She also gave details of a number of disciplinary cases instituted against officials involved in these accidents. In 2020, there were 33 cases presented before the loss prevention and control. These were not just the cases of reported accidents reported in 2020 and investigated, but inclusive of other accidents investigated in previous years; 16 cases recommended to labour for charges of misconduct and final written warnings. In 2021, 37 cases were presented before the loss prevention and control office. After completion of cases they are referred to human resources for acknowledgement of debt and recovery, labour for disciplinary process, and the legal department at Gauteng Health for third party claims. Some employees were also referred to employee health and wellness for assessment post accidents, Mokgethi said. Bloom said Gauteng’s emergency response times to save lives were hindered by a high accident rate, with 259 ambulances involved in accidents in 2020 and 2021. “I am greatly concerned that more than one in five of Gauteng’s 1 221 emergency ambulances were involved in accidents over a 2-year period. “Some of these ambulances were written off, and others were off the road for a long time because of slow repairs. “Currently, 140 ambulances are not operational, which leads to lives being lost due to slow response times. The department says that these ambulances are not in service because daily downtime that sees vehicles taken for scheduled services, and unplanned (breakdowns) repairs and maintenance,” Bloom said. According to international standards, Gauteng should have one ambulance for every 10 000 people as well as 10% more for a buffer, which amounts to 1 795 ambulances. “We are, therefore, short of about 600 ambulances to provide a decent emergency service. Better management is needed to cut down on reckless ambulance driving and to ensure that people needing emergency care are reached as soon as possible,” he said. Mokgethi, however, said that Gauteng Emergency Medical Services would be capacitated with more funding to improve service in all districts, including the metros. Pretoria News