Pretoria - Popular broadcaster and entertainment personality Percy Mabasa, 28, has once again proven that nothing can separate him from his love for the microphone and broadcasting. After bidding farewell to the airwaves at SMU FM last year when his contract was not extended, the Soshanguve-based star has bounced back with his podcast that generated at least 1 million views on social media. Popularly known as Percy Sleash SA, he has joined many influencers and content creators who give people something to watch on YouTube, Instagram, Twitter and TikTok through his Culture Spotlight podcast. Mabasa finds it intriguing that he did not plan for his podcast to be warmly received, because it was suggested to him by a friend during a conversation when he was trying to figure out what he could do next, since his radio gig had come to an end. “You can imagine after five years on radio, where I built a strong and large fanbase in Tshwane, I was back to having some time on my hands and I wondered what I could do with it as a creative young person. “Speaking to you now, I’m so proud, I’m speechless because today, my co-host and producer of the podcast, Mondli Skosana, and I have published a total of 16 episodes every Friday on YouTube and other platforms. “We have hosted beloved community role-models, game-changers and beloved celebrities like Fifi Cooper, Zulu Naja, K2, Chairman and Gash1 from the popular TV show Big Brother Mzansi.” Mabasa said this was a milestone for him and his team because not only do they give their guests freedom of expression to talk about uncomfortable things and share hidden truths, they also share skills among each other, as they have partners with young people from North West who founded Next Door Media. “Big Brother Mzansi has already asked us to go and interview the housemates and we have brands like Drop clothing and Sarah’s Corner sponsoring us. It shows that the people do believe in the vision and what we deliver. “We shoot our episodes at Smoked Joint in Soshanguve Block H and people show us much love and appreciation. “We can see and feel that the growth is coming on so well. We love what we do and it feels so good when the people also love it.” Mabasa said the podcast had been a light on his life because he did not know what to do this year, something he considered a very dangerous place for a young person to find themselves. He said the money had not started rolling in, but sponsors were coming on board to support the vision. He aims to capture all of South Africa and expose them to content that is not limited and restricted within the parameters or radio and TV, as he knows first-hand how hard it is to be told not to talk about a burning issue that people are dying to hear about. Pretoria News