Pretoria - Filmmaker and brewer Obakeng Malope has initiated the Beer is Art campaign to encourage unemployed youth to become beer makers. Malope, originally from Brits, but now based in Johannesburg, has travelled to 10 countries for film festivals and in pursuit of her dream to have her own beer and brewery. “I got to learn about different cultures and food. When I decided to follow my passion for beer, I already had those experiences under my belt. I wanted to make films about our growing South African craft beer industry as well as our beers and brewers. “During the hard lockdown, I was already on the Cicerone Certification Programme by Black Beer Chick. Eugenia Brown from the USA came up with an online programme where we logged into Zoom and got taught beer and food pairing, beer brewing, tasting beer, etc. Brown took 100 black women and gave them this opportunity. “I went to my relative’s house in Alexandra, and in the morning, you see young, educated people chilling, not having jobs. I was fortunate to get this education. Beer is a multibillion-dollar industry and I thought, ‘how about we all get in?’ “I was doing newspaper interviews where the brewers would give me their beer and I would do tasting, educating the journalists and people about their beers. I would tell the story of the beer, what it contains and the stories of the brewers. “Dale De Klerk, whose father worked in a yoghurt factory, uses yoghurt machines to make beer. Those inspiring stories get the young ones inspired. I made them taste a black mamba stout from Mike Agars, a blonde from Gavin Marias and a pilsner from Apiwe Nxusani Mawela. “And the stories of Thokozani Sitole, from KZN, who used to brew for Soweto Gold, and Amogelang Madileng, who was inspired to be a brewer when she learned that her great grandparents were brewers. I thought, ‘hey, I can do this.’” Malope said Beer is Art is not only about educating the students but profiling the brewers, their beer and the industry. “I will have to shoot the lessons as I am a filmmaker and distribute the lessons, and the funds will sponsor the next students. “We are still searching for funding. We have teachers and podcasters and I am talking to Tunisians and Japanese, and next year, we are hoping to start. Funders are sceptical. I am building an audience to prove that this is needed.” Malope said they hoped to start next year, and people who would like to be part of the campaign can follow her on social media platforms for information. Malope said they had partnered with Indian companies because “the Indians are notorious for their spices, and one cannot help but wonder what their beer is like, and what spices and infusions they use”. “Chatty Girija is the first Indian podcaster. She is teaching viewers how to get into the beer podcast business and also educate about Indian beer culture. “She is coming with an Indian brewer and a brewing professor, who will teach us about brewing Indian beers. This is a Zoom connection and each one has a lesson day and a role. “I was watching YouTube videos and one of the YouTubers was exploring Indian food. India is notorious for its spices, fish curry, masala, briyani and mutton curry. They have different kinds of chutneys – garlic, beetroot and mint. I was asking myself, ‘how does Indian craft beer gets made and does it contain those spices?’ “I saw beers like the Taj Mahal and Kingfisher, that are very light because they wash the palette because Indian food is rich in flavours. I wanted to learn more. “I found Chatty and we had a WhatsApp meeting the next day. I pitched, and the next week we were signing a contractual agreement.” Malope said, with Indian beers, the brewers used their own signature locally sourced ingredients. “I want the young ones to be inspired, the youth from the villages to pick berries and herbs and come out with signature South African flavours.” Malope said the aim was for people not to drink and drive and to respect beer. “They must respect beer and appreciate beer like we do. They can become beer tasters, judges and do beer and food pairings”. Pretoria News