Pretoria - The Tshwane Fresh Produce Market – one of the City of Tshwane’s entities – is set to get a facelift. MMC for Economic Development and Spatial Planning, André le Roux, has announced bold plans to upgrade and maintain the infrastructure at the market at a cost of R18 million. He said the budget would be injected into facility maintenance as well as upgrading and extending market facilities. The work to be undertaken includes the upgrading of the ripening centre, redesigning the market entrances and exits, and associated works and upgrading the market’s public lights. Other projects would include the upgrading of the perforated market trading hall roller doors and installing and commissioning a 500kVA emergency generator. Repair and maintenance work will be done on roof leaks, potholes, drains, lights, electricity reticulation systems, ablution facilities, market platform surfaces and the cold storage plant. Le Roux expressed the hope that the infrastructure improvement would attract more farmers and buyers and unlock possible economic opportunities for the market. The market plays important socio-economic roles, he said, such as improving access to quality food and providing better marketing opportunities for farmers. The market also provides employment and business opportunities to communities, according to the City. Le Roux said: “The market has a direct impact on Tshwane’s economy, which includes rental income, food security, and trade and employment, among other things.” According to him, the market serves approximately 6 800 producers from all over the country and neighbouring countries. “In addition, more than 5 000 clients visit the market, providing employment opportunities to about 1 000 people in the various business enterprises located within the market facility,” he said. His department was fully committed to ensuring that it had programmes in place to spark economic activity for the benefit of local businesses and residents, he said. “During the 2020/21 financial year, the Tshwane Fresh Produce Market had a turnover of R3.7 billion through produce sales and accounted for 21.5% of the market share, making Tshwane Fresh Produce Market the second favourite market in South Africa,” he said. He, however, bemoaned the fact that the market “suffered infrastructure and maintenance challenges, making it less appealing to some farmers and buyers”. “To lend our support, in the recently approved budget for the 2022/23 financial year, the City allocated R8 million towards the maintenance of the market. “An additional allocation of R10 million will go towards upgrading and extending market facilities. Combined, the City is investing R18 million to support and upgrade the Tshwane Fresh Produce Market,” Le Roux said. Pretoria News