Pretoria - A study by the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) revealed that drivers of the much-loved Volkswagen Polo were the worst in South Africa and were involved in the most fatal crashes. The study, titled South African Fatal Crashes Context, analysed fatal crash data from October 1, 2017 to June 30, 2021. It also analysed Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences (Aarto) speed infringement data from January 1, 2019 to June 20, 2021. The study found that Volkswagen Polo, Toyota Hilux and Toyota Quantum were the vehicle models mostly involved in fatal crashes in South Africa, and accounted for the highest number of speed infringement fines issued. A total of 48 330 vehicles were involved in 37 583 fatal crashes, with 45 232 deaths during the period, according to data on the Road Traffic Management Corporation’s national crash data management system. The analysis of the top 20 vehicle models involved in fatal crashes showed that the Volkswagen Polo, Toyota Hilux and Toyota Quantum were involved in 43.2% of fatal crashes. The Volkswagen Polo came out on top, with a contribution of 16.7% of all fatal crashes. It was followed closely by the Toyota Hilux, which was involved in 14.2% of fatal crashes and the Toyota Quantum with a recorded 12.2% involvement in fatal crashes. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane said the vehicle models also accounted for the highest number of Aarto speed infringement fines issued by the Johannesburg Metro Police Department, Tshwane Metro Police Department, Gauteng Department of Community Safety, and the National Traffic Police. “A total of 35% of speed infringement fines were issued to these three vehicle models in the period under review, even though they constituted 33% of the total vehicle population.” Zwane said the high number of speed infringements committed by public transport types of vehicles such as the Toyota Quantum was unacceptable and needed to be addressed. “Although it is expected that public transport vehicles will be involved in crashes because they are on the road on a semi-full-time basis, their contribution to fatalities remains unacceptably high considering that they constitute a mere 3.3% of the total vehicle population,” he said. The study also found that Volkswagen Polo and Toyota Quantum vehicles aged between 5 and 10 years were involved in most fatal crashes when ranked by the grouping of vehicle make, model and age. Zwane said the report would inform further research that would provide input towards reducing death and injuries because of road crashes. Pretoria News