Pretoria - The University of Pretoria’s TuksSport has introduced its new mascot, a Bateleur eagle which is native to Southern Africa. The mascot has been provisionally named Masey, and students, staff and the university community are encouraged to suggest new names. They stand a chance of winning an Instax Mini 11 Polaroid camera and can enter the competition by visiting the university's and TuksSport’s official social media platforms. The competition ends on July 29 and the mascot name will be announced in the second semester once university activities commence. The mascot is a high flyer and continually strives to do better and be better. Its stand-out features are fluffy black hair and a big red beak, with a graduation cap. Angelica van Dou, marketing and communications manager at TuksSport, said the new mascot was tenacious in their pursuit of their ideals of being a true Tukkie. “In line with the efforts of the university to create an inclusive/non-conforming gender landscape, we felt that introducing a gender-neutral mascot was what was called for. “We wanted each student, athlete and community member to see themselves in the mascot and be able to identify with a symbol we are being very mindful about introducing,” said Van Dou. She said having a mascot was an opportunity to communicate the values of an organisation through a character. “It will enable students to build a deeper affinity with the university, TuksSport and related campaigns by being the physical embodiment of concepts and values that are sometimes tricky to articulate.” The mascot’s predecessor, Oom Gert, played an interesting role in the university community many years ago, particularly in residence traditions. “Oom Gert is a tall brown statue inspired by Oom Paul, a figure that stood outside a tobacco shop in Pretorius Street. “From 1932 to 1950, residences at the university would raid other residences in order to steal Oom Gert. “Unlike Oom Gert, the new mascot will not be subject to residence raids but rather be more like a campus influencer. “Masey will make appearances at events, sports fixtures as well as across the social calendar of the university community,” the article read. Van Dou said the new mascot earned its stripes from Oom Gert and had the important responsibility of carrying on the legacy of the Tukkie spirit into a new age. Pretoria News