Pretoria - The spike in terror attacks in Mozambique is likely to cause political instability in South Africa and other SADC countries, if not stopped. Efforts should also not be spared to promote a “peaceful and inclusive dialogue” in eSwatini in the interest of regional security and the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement. This is contained in the ANC policy document dubbed, “In Pursuit of Progressive Internationalism”, in which the party is asking its branches to discuss solutions to terrorism and cross-border terror networks on the African continent. Addressing the media at Luthuli House, the ANC headquarters in Joburg, the governing party’s head of international relations, Lindiwe Zulu, said her party had developed these policy documents to allow branches to beef them up before the national policy conference in Joburg next week. The ANC warned that the spike in terror attacks caused concerns that the terror problem would grip southern Africa and cause long-term damage to political stability and economic well-being, seen in regions where terrorism has festered. “This has a direct bearing on South Africa’s national security and well-being. The evolving regional response and close observation by the AU mark a beginning of a more holistic response. This response must also factor in the role of Rwanda to ensure that all stakeholders involved in peace and security efforts in Mozambique can co-ordinate systematically in the interests of the people of Mozambique and complement regional efforts to encourage peace and development,” the documents stated. The party also calls upon the EU and US to lift sanctions against Zimbabwe. “Indeed this is not only important for Zimbabwe, but the region as a whole. This, while also remaining focused on the democratisation efforts in eSwatini to promote inclusive dialogue. “A prosperous Zimbabwe at peace with herself, its neighbours and the world would certainly bode well for the region at a time when much of the focus on the continent will turn towards economic recovery and regional integration. This is especially important as the country goes into national elections in 2023. “A peaceful and inclusive dialogue process in eSwatini will likewise contribute to a prosperous region able to focus on the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area. South Africa’s chairpersonship of the SADC Organ on Politics, Defence and Security and its role in the Troika must thus be used to promote processes that bring about sustainable solutions. Having already historically invested much political and economic capital in the peace process in the DRC, the ANC must continue to work with the relevant national and regional stakeholders to contribute to peace talks and development efforts in the DRC,” the document reads. It further highlights the importance of ensuring the continuity of processes initiated by South Africa in the DRC. “It will also be important to work closely with Namibia as the incoming chairperson of the SADC Organ on Politics, Defence and Security to ensure continuity. Lesotho has benefited from successful interventions by the SADC and will continue to receive close scrutiny. The Horn of Africa has continued to see growing militarisation with external powers growing their military presence in Djibouti. “With this comes concerns that this turns Africa and the Western Indian Ocean area into a zone for conflict and war instead of a zone for peace and development. “The US has a vast number of military outposts and is involved in more than a dozen other operations on African soil, thus bringing Africa within the orbit of the US war on terror and its devastating consequences for a peaceful and weapons-free Africa. While the Ethiopia-Eritrea rapprochement has continued, internal situations in both countries remain areas of concern,” the policy document states. The document also bemoans Morocco’s failure to grant self-determination to the people of Western Sahara. “This fuels the perception that South Africa’s sway in Africa has declined, its role in championing the progressive African agenda on the continent is seen as having weakened. In this context, Morocco and other forces not aligned with South Africa’s progressive African agenda have taken a foothold and are weakening further the continental unity behind its long-established principles and values. “While South Africa continues to enjoy the confidence of many as shown by its recent election to chair the AU and the APRM, there is no doubt that its ability to work with others to lead a progressive agenda needs reinvigorating,” concluded the documents as the ANC admitted to some of its failures.  Pretoria News