Pretoria - The father of an eight-year-old girl from Mamelodi whose throat was slashed, allegedly by her mother’s boyfriend after an argument, has vowed to do anything in his power to oppose the bail application by the accused, Sipho Nkosi. The man, who cannot be named to protect the child, said they had heard that Nkosi wanted to apply for bail again. “We want to plead with the prosecutors and the magistrate to check all the evidence and deny him bail and hand down a harsher sentence. “We want him to be given a harsher sentence so that other children and women can be saved.” Nkosi was arrested for attempted murder in April after allegedly slashing the girl’s throat in Mamelodi, a day after arguing with her mother. The child was rescued by her grandmother, who heard her screams.  The accused ran away and later handed himself in at a Limpopo police station. “A lot of women have suffered at his hands and it looks like he will not stop now.” He said the lawyer Nkosi hired was for the bail application and not for the trial, which indicated that he still wanted to apply for bail. He said they had a hired a lawyer for the past two appearances at Mamelodi Magistrate’s Court. “Our lawyer presented the reasons why the suspect should not be granted bail. “It looks like the accused is trying to apply for bail, but our lawyer is on their case to make sure that if he applies again, we know.” The man said #NotInMyName wanted to apply to be admitted as friend of the (court) so that it could monitor everything that was happening pertaining to the case. “If the accused applies for bail we will mobilise the community and the organisation to oppose bail,” the father said. He said Nkosi did not deserve to be granted bail, given his run-ins with the law dating back to 2019. “The police have been looking for him for the longest time, and he was only arrested now because he had committed another crime. “There are also rumours that he committed other crimes during the period that he was wanted by the police.” #NotInMyName secretary-general Themba Masango said the organisation was happy with the proceedings so far, and called for Nkosi to be denied bail. “He should not get bail. So far we are of the view that he is going to do the right thing. “As the community we are saying no bail should be granted and should bail be granted, his safety will not be guaranteed on the outside. “These heinous crimes need to be stopped and we need justice to be done.” During his last appearance, the matter was postponed to later this month to allow Nkosi to appear in the Pretoria Regional Court for an unrelated case. Pretoria News