Pretoria - The Independent Community Pharmacy Association has expressed concern following the announcement that the SA Post Office will be acting as a collection point for chronic medication. According to the NPO which represents more than 1 200 independent pharmacies, medicines are not normal tradeable commodities. “They are prescribed by authorised prescribers, usually a doctor, for a diagnosed, treatable condition in a patient. The medicine is then checked and dispensed by a pharmacist. “Both of these healthcare professionals have years of training and are strictly regulated through statutory councils. “Medicines are stored, according to legislation, under prescribed storage conditions to ensure that they retain their effectiveness and have not deteriorated or been damaged in any way.” The association said pharmacies stored medicines under certain means and temperature. “Remember that the expiry date on a medicine only holds true if it has been stored according to the manufacturer’s specifications. “Inappropriately stored medicines can quickly degrade, and certain medicines can become toxic or corrosive when they expire. “They are protected from direct sunlight and any extreme temperature changes, in a clean, safe environment free of any contaminates. “Post Offices do not have temperature control and warning systems to manage medicines either at a constant temperature. “Medicines are only handled by appropriately qualified people who are registered with the South African Pharmacy Council.” The association noted that there was no appropriately trained or registered staff that can handle medicines in a Post Office. “There is no qualified healthcare professional who can assist patients with queries or medicine related problems at the Post Office.” The association criticised the Post Office’s performance levels and said it had an extremely poor track record when dealing with normal items of post. “We have all seen the photographs of piles of parcels/letters lying for months at depots. “We have probably all received post that was damaged, tampered with, pilfered, or arrived months after it was sent. “The courier services have grown exponentially as people look for effective and safe ways of getting parcels from point A to point B. The Post Office is not trusted with our letters; how can we trust them with our lifesaving medicines?” The association highlighted the importance of face-to-face counselling sessions with a pharmacist, which sessions have led to a dramatic improvement in therapeutic outcomes and disease management. The association was also concerned that those pharmacists managing these state medicines and utilising the unregistered Post Office sites to facilitate deliveries may be in contravention of the Pharmacy Act and the Medicines Act and be subjected to disciplinary action by Council. Department of Health spokesperson Foster Mohale said the practice of the Post Office dispensing medicines was not new and had been going on for the past eight years. “To date 300 Post Office branches are some of the 2 800 external pick up points and we have never experienced any problems. This programme has benefited more than 5 million patients receiving lifesaving chronic medication. Post Office spokesperson Johan Kruger said they did not dispense medication. However, Kruger, said collecting the medication at the Post Office took around five minutes because the parcel could be scanned, and the patient must sign for receiving it. Pretoria News