Pretoria - Miss South Africa Top 10 finalist Lebogang Mahlangu of Soshanguve dreams to bring the crown to the capital city. The 26-year-old, who holds a BSc in Food Science from Stellenbosch University and is employed as a procurement specialist, was on a roadshow to raise awareness about her Miss South Africa journey. “Being in the Top 10 for Miss South Africa 2022 has been incredible. I feel empowered to do more and be more for my community,” she said. “I hope my journey will inspire more young people to chase their dreams without fear because we only fail when we stop trying.” Mahlangu said although the tour had been in Pretoria only, she was pleasantly surprised by the support she received and hoped to do this on a national scale as a Miss South Africa. She said the biggest support people could give was by voting for her on the Miss South Africa app. Mahlangu entered the 2022 pageant because she believed in the potential and value of the youth and women in the country. “I know if encouraged and empowered to take charge, we as a collective can create self-sustaining solutions to the problems facing our communities. “Miss South Africa gives me a platform to champion the country’s potential and help see it become a reality,” she said. Mahlangu describes herself as resourceful, purposeful and ready. She added that what made her unique was perspective. “All our perspectives are different, and we each have our own way of seeing and experiencing the world around us. My perspective is anchored in my hope for our people. I see the potential in a situation where others may see a dead end. “I choose to believe there’s a way around an obstacle when others may turn around.” Mahlangu plays her part in her community and in South Africa by being part of the TalkEat initiative that helps feed communities. “I believe everyone wants to thrive, but right now, not all of us can. “On the one hand, 14 million people go hungry daily in South Africa. And on the other hand, people want to further their development, but access to transformative insights is limited. “TalkEat is a platform created to encourage meaningful conversations with thought leaders for knowledge to be shared. “We donate meals for every live Instagram conversation we host. We donated 45 000 meals in 2021,”Mahlangu said. She has every reason to be optimistic about her chances this time around. In 2020, she entered Miss SA and was in the Top 5. Last year, she went all the way to the Top 3 and believes this year is her turn to go all the way to glory. Prior to that, in 2018, she was crowned Miss Mamelodi Sundowns Western Cape while studying in that province. Besides Mahlangu, the other top 10 finalists are Anarzade Omar, Ayanda Thabethe, Itumeleng Parage, Keaoleboga Nkashe, Luvé Meyer, Luyanda Zuma, Ndavi Nokeri, Pearl Ntshehi and Tamsyn Jack. The contest will be held on August 13 at the SunBet Arena, Time Square at Menlyn Maine in Pretoria. Pretoria News