Pretoria - The lack of information about science, technology, engineering and mathematics in previously disadvantaged communities prompted Lesego Masethe to found Brain Waves Development to help empower those communities. Masethe, a journalism and science communication graduate from Mamelodi, is the chief executive officer of the organisation, which she established in 2015 and which has had over 3 800 beneficiaries. “Because of low enrolment, poor marks in subjects such as maths and science, poor public understanding, and poor access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics information, illiteracy and lack of enthusiasm towards the fields is high. As such, very little innovation stems from these communities. “It is for this reason that we as Brain Waves Development have tasked ourselves with employing unconventional science, technology, engineering and mathematics communication skills to ensure that it is communicated and taught in simple and understandable ways while ensuring that it maintains the scientific accuracy, relevance and context of the content and engagement.” Masethe said this was complemented by the use of indigenous African languages to ensure that all stakeholders and audiences were afforded the opportunity to read, listen, watch, learn, enquire and interact with comfort and understanding. She said there were three flagship initiatives with their own programmes. The first was Loxion science, which has programmes such as the Loxion science fair and expo, robotics, coding, Loxion science camps and science school tours. The second was a literacy initiative that included reading and speech festivals, essay writing competitions and book clubs. The last was a climate change initiative, with programmes such as school debates, climate awareness campaigns that included workshops, colour runs to raise awareness, and living green initiatives and a Trees Connect project that planted trees at schools. “We engage with primary and high school learners from Mamelodi, Atteridgeville, Hammanskraal, Ga-Rankuwa Soshanguve and Mabopane and our goal is to engage other township and rural communities in and outside Gauteng. “The issue is very simple: our children in under-resourced communities are not able to or cannot learn the valuable skills of the future,” Masethe said. She said research showed that science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics field employment opportunities were projected to grow twice as fast as those in other industries. “We need to train a new generation of analytical and critical thinkers who are able to identify and solve complex problems that are affecting our world today. “We need to be innovative and embrace the changes that are coming whether we like it or not,” she said. “Learners in under-resourced communities deserve the same opportunities as their counterparts in affluent communities.” Masethe said: “By practically demonstrating the importance of these fields and how it impacts our day-to-day lives, we will slowly begin to create change not only in the classroom but in our communities. “But we need to ask the right questions: are educators ready to embrace new teaching and learning methods to prepare today’s students for an increasingly connected and automated future? If yes, what tools and strategies are they using to combat this challenge? And just as importantly, how will they translate ambition into action? These questions are important if we are going to evoke any worthwhile change for the benefit of our children.” Pretoria News