Pretoria - The integrity of the investigation into allegations of wrongdoing against Tshwane council speaker Dr Murunwa Makwarela has been called into question following a failure to conclude the process in 60 days, in line with a council resolution taken on March 31. The probe into the allegations against Makwarela included looking into claims that he failed to disclose to council that he was suspended for allegedly being implicated in sexual harassment while working at the Joburg Fresh Produce Market. Former strategic executive in the speaker’s office, Tiyiselani Babane, who brought up the allegations, told the Pretoria News yesterday that he was not surprised that the investigation has not been finalised. A report into the allegations should have been submitted to council during last week’s monthly council sitting in terms of its time frame. However, that never materialised and there was no mention of the report during the council meeting. Babane said: “There is no impetus that has been put in the investigation and to make sure that the investigation is governed properly.” He said he refused to be interviewed by an investigator because he was no longer a City of Tshwane employee and he did not have confidence in the investigation. He questioned why Makwarela was not suspended pending the finalisation of the process, adding that his presence in office could “frustrate” the investigation. He said he approached the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria to obtain an order forcing the council to implement a resolution it took to appoint an acting speaker for 60 days. “The reason why we wanted the matter to be heard on an urgent basis was because we knew there was going to be something (delays) of this nature,” he said. The ANC caucus, which was at the forefront of raising the allegations against the speaker, said it was aware of the delays. Party chief whip, Aaron Maluleka said: “We are not happy with the snail’s pace at which the investigation is taking place into the speaker because there is a dark cloud over his head.” He said the caucus would write a letter to the chair of chairs, Sakkie du Plooy, “to check what exactly they want to do because last week they were finalising the constitution of committee members”. The Pretoria News understands that the members would be part of a special committee to oversee the investigation. Du Plooy said he would welcome a letter from the ANC “and I will seriously take it up”. He, however, said he was told that the report into the matter was being finalised. He conceded that the probe had continued beyond its scheduled time, saying this was partly due to “technicalities”. Babane had also alleged that Makwarela had abused his political power by allegedly demanding VIP protection more than a month before he assumed office. He took issue with Makwarela, accusing him of using his political influence to interfere in the administrator’s work. “The matters I raised are governance and ethical in nature, and one former SABC board member once said that ‘when governance and ethics fail, you get a dysfunctional organisation’. That's what has been happening in Tshwane, which is continuing to happen,” he said. Makwarela had previously dismissed the allegations as “lies”, accusing Babane of leading a political smear campaign against him. He pleaded for those responsible for the investigation to be afforded time to make a proper determination. Pretoria News