Pretoria - A case of corruption and maladministration against former Thulamela Local Municipality mayor, Avhashoni Tshifhango and suspended municipal manager, Hlengani Maluleke was postponed to September 30 to allow the defence to bring an application for representation the National Prosecution Authority (NPA) said. The duo who are out on R30 000 bail each made a brief appearance before the Specialised Commercial Cimes Court in Polokwane. They were arrested by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations (Hawks) in February for their role in the looting of the VBS mutual bank. Hawks investigations revealed that the municipality had illegally invested an amount of R30 million into VBS in contravention of the municipal finance management act. NPA spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Nzhangi confirmed to Pretoria News that the two were expected to return to court in September. She said: “The VBS matter has been postponed to September 30 2022 to allow the defence lawyer to bring an application for representation. Tshifhango is accused of accepting a Jeep Cherokee valued at over R638 000 through a well-known VBS money laundering third party while Maluleke invested millions into the now collapsed bank. Scores of people including politicians, municipal officials and bank executives are facing more than 100 charges after being arrested for their role in the looting of about R2.3 billion of the VBS investments. Twenty municipalities in Limpopo, North West and Gauteng, lost nearly R1.6 billion after illegally investing with the bank. Most glaring of those arrested are former Limpopo ANC treasurer, Danny Msiza, who was fingered as a kingpin in advocate Terry Motau’s ‘“The Great Bank Heist” report that blew the lid off the scandal. According to the report, the accused funnelled the savings and investments of the mainly poor people of Vhembe in Limpopo into their personal bank accounts between 2015 and 2018. The money included investments from municipalities, stokvels, burial societies and ordinary South African citizens, especially the elderly. Others indicted are former Limpopo ANC Youth League leader Kabelo Matsepe, Ralliom Razwinane, Takunda Edgar Mucheke and Tshianeo Madadzhe. Others included bank executives, former VBS chairperson Tshifhiwa Calvin Matodzi, Andile Malusi Ramavhunga, Mulimisi Solomon Maposa, Simpho Calvin Malaba, Phalaphala Avashoni Ramikosi, Thifhelimbilu Ernest Nesane, Paul Magula, Mmbulaheni Robert Madzonga and others. Pretoria News