Pretoria - It has emerged that more than 15% of South Africans have had to deal with fertility problems at some point. In this regard, The government is attempting to unite millions of people in the understanding that there is a need to remove stigmas and barriers that stand in the way of building families, and say “infertility does not discriminate”. Infertility Awareness Association of South Africa said July 18 to 24 would culminate in the Fertility Show Africa 2022, where various topics surrounding fertility would be discussed. The show will be held in Sandton from July 23 to 24. It is in its third year and is the only event of its kind on the continent. “It is most suitable for anyone trying to conceive or on a journey to parenthood, and is free for all attendees – online and at the live, in-person event,” the association’s director Saskia Williams said. She said different topics would be touched on every day leading up to the show, among them the myths surrounding this devastating circumstance. Williams said some of the myths associated with infertility included that it was just a women's problem, but in truth it was not and could be a result of the man being unable to produce children. “Other myths are that if you relax you’ll get pregnant; that age is not a factor; and that you need to try to conceive naturally for a year before going for tests.” Williams said there were three public hospitals that offered fertility treatment in the country, and these were Steve Biko Academic Hospital in Pretoria and Cape Town Groote Schuur and Tygerberg hospitals. She also said there were ways in which couples or individuals could try to have a baby, such as artificial insemination, in vitro fertilisation, and Intracytoplasmic sperm injection with their own eggs and sperm. “Egg/sperm donation, surrogacy and adoption are also options,” she added. Live Events CEO and Fertility Show Africa organiser Heidi Warricker said all the points raised in the National Fertility Awareness Week would be covered in various talks lined up for the event. “Some of the topics include encouraging discussions around fertility matters from a young age; questioning why so many medical aids do not cover the recognised disease; how the subject should be covered in the high school curriculum; fertility policies in the workplace, and where to begin when struggling to conceive. “Because many of those suffering from infertility prefer some level of privacy and confidentiality, we will also have an online event running in tandem with the physical show, which will also allow visitors from other parts of the country and the rest of the world to take part." The fertility show said it aimed at those actively seeking answers, solutions and treatments for infertility, and attendees will have the opportunity to consult with a wide range of clinicians, experts including doctors, embryologists, psychologists, nurses practitioners, fertility clinics, legal advisers, support groups, surrogacy specialists and adoption and donor agencies, as well as natural fertility solutions, complementary and alternative therapies and nutritional and lifestyle advisers. Pretoria News