Pretoria - The absence of a permanent city manager in Tshwane over an almost three-year period has been attributed to instability within the metro leadership, which might have bred the irregularly spent budget of R2.7 billion for the 2020/2021 financial period. This was a view expressed by the regional South African Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) in the wake of the adverse finding by the auditor-general that the metro was the worst-performing municipality in Gauteng. The union expressed concerns that the municipality has been without a permanent city manager for two years, saying it contributed to low morale in the institution. The position of permanent municipal manager had been vacant since the departure of Dr Moeketsi Mosola in 2019. Acting municipal manager Mmaseabata Mutlaneng was ushered into the post by former head administrator Mpho Nawa. Nawa, together with a team of administrators who included Mutlaneng, were appointed by the ANC-led Gauteng provincial executive council when Tshwane was placed under administration and disbanded in line with Section 139 (1)(c) of the Constitution in March 2020. The decision by the executive council was legally challenged by the DA up to the Constitutional Court, which ruled last year in October that the dissolution of the Tshwane council was “unlawful”. Executive mayor Randall Williams had said Mutlaneng’s contract was signed by Nawa, and it stated that she would be an acting city manager until a permanent candidate was appointed. Samwu regional chairperson Nkhetheni Muthavhi said the union held the view that the high turnover of senior managers had led to instability in the institution. “Almost all section 56 managers are acting in our City of Tshwane. The City has been without a permanent city manager for almost two years. Other vacant positions are chief financial officer, governance support officer, chief of emergency services, group head in the office of city manager and group head for city strategies,” he said. He called on the City to desist from outsourcing services where there was enough capacity in pursuit of stabilising the institution. Muthavhi further said: “The employer must stop utilising attorneys on disciplinary matters and also on disputes at the divisional level. All vacant posts are advertised and appointments effected, including the position of the city manager.” He said the union had noted with concern the AG report classifying the City of Tshwane as the worst-performing metro in the province. “Further to that, the auditor-general raised frustration with Tshwane’s high levels of irregular expenditure totalling 2.7 billion and reliance on consultants.” According to him, Samwu has been raising the issue that the City was utilising contractors even in areas where employees were performing such tasks. “The City continues to utilise outside attorneys in disciplinary and bargaining cases when there are internally appointed attorneys,” he said. Despite its record-high irregular expenditure the City received an unqualified report with findings. According to the City, the AG’s unqualified audit opinion stated that the metro’s financial statements were “fairly and appropriately presented in all material respects for the year under review”. “This means that the City is operating in compliance with the Local Government: Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act 56 of 2003). “Our multiparty coalition government respects the independence of the Office of the AG and therefore we have taken note of the points of concern raised by the AG during the audit process, which include material water and electricity losses. These are largely driven by ageing infrastructure, illegal connections and electricity theft,” the City said. Pretoria News