Pretoria - A male teacher at Fred Margadie Primary School in Eersterust in Pretoria, who holds a senior position, stands accused of assaulting his colleagues and learners. The timeline of reported cases against the teacher, as reported by an organisation called Rea Thusa We Help, dates as far back as 2019 when he was appointed at the school. “In 2019, a female learner was beaten at the school by the senior teacher. A police case was opened, but to date nothing has come of it despite (the teacher) being found guilty by the Gauteng Department of Education and ordered to pay a fine. “On May 3, 2022, he allegedly assaulted a former acting principal at the school by violently grabbing her by the hand, shaking her violently and screaming at her in her office in front of another teacher,” Rea Thusa We Help said. On May 18, a Grade 7 learner was also allegedly assaulted by the teacher. It is claimed that he pulled the learner from his chair, hit him on his back and pushed him against the door. This case was reported to the department. In another incident on July 20, the same teacher allegedly assaulted a female colleague, also by grabbing her by the hand and shaking her violently. A case was opened at the local police station and the matter reported to the Institutional Development and Support official and the South African Council for Educators. Yesterday a parent, who did not want to be named, said he believed there were other cases against the educator. “The man is being protected by district officials and the department as a whole. There is a teacher who complained and laid a case against him, but nothing has been done against him,” the parent told the Pretoria News. “The district wanted to sweep the whole thing under the rug by requesting the then acting principal to accept an apology letter from the teacher,” he said. He added that the man had been found guilty by the South African Council for Educators in respect of a case of assault. “There are many cases where he assaulted learners, and those cases were reported to the council but nothing was done,” he alleged. A mother of a child at the school said: “Parents are silent, but concerned. Some of these parents are facing financial difficulties at this point and are unable to move their children to other schools.” She said the department had dispatched psychologists to deal with the situation, but learners were scared and did not want to go to school. “School should be a place where your child is safe and secure,” the mother said. The father of the female teacher said he had a police case hanging over his head after he stood up for his daughter. “After going to the school and helping my daughter open a case with the police, the next day there were police officers at my house and they said there was a case against me for corrupting the school,” he said. He said he found out through hearsay what had happened to his daughter. “The assault happened last week Wednesday and I only found out on Friday. “I then went to the school and asked for the principal. I asked why the incident was not reported to the police. “The man (the teacher accused of assault) then came in while I was talking to the principal. I asked him, as big as he is, how could he assault my daughter, and was it right? “He did not answer me. He just slammed the door and got out of the office.” He said he was then told to leave the school’s premises. Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said the department was concerned about the allegations made against the educator. “We have launched an investigation and, as such, necessary action will be taken accordingly. We strongly condemn the alleged conduct of the educator. “We have already dispatched our psycho-social team to the school to provide necessary support.” Mabona requested educators to refrain from all types of misconduct and to focus on learning and teaching. “Educators should lead by example to ensure that learners mirror their conduct in creating a safe school environment, conducive for effective learning and teaching. “We will closely monitor the situation accordingly,” Mabona said. Pretoria News