Pretoria - The outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic led to the cancellation of various operations at the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital. A fire, which broke out at the hospital last year, also accounted for the cancellations. This was revealed by Gauteng Health MEC Dr Nomathemba Mokgethi in her written reply to questions from the DA’s spokesperson on health Jack Bloom in the legislature. She revealed that 785 operations were cancelled at the hospital last year, worsening the long waiting lists for surgery which has swelled to 2  677 patients. Paediatric surgery was the most affected, with 610 cancelled operations. The other cancellations were cardiothoracic 80, gastrointestinal 40, breast clinic, endocrine and soft tissue 25, neurosurgery 20, ear and nose and throat 10. The largest waiting list is for orthopaedics, with 833 patients who can wait up to two years for surgery. Paediatric surgery has 453 child patients who will wait between six months and two years. There are 200 cataract patients who will wait between six and eight months for surgery, 137 neurosurgery patients will wait for six months and 109 urology patients will wait between four and six months. Mokgethi said cancellations last year were due to Covid and the fire incident at the hospital. “There was a lack of ICU beds at during this time; starting time is often late because porters bring the patients late. Sometimes, with time constraints on lists, patients booked are found to have medical concerns regarding fitness for anaesthesia,” Mokgethi said. She said they were opening a second theatre on Tuesdays and Fridays. “We have initiated a list at Bertha Gxowa Hospital every two weeks to clear some of the smaller cases. We also have lists at South Rand Hospital every two weeks for minor colorectal cases,” she said. Detailing progress on organ transplants, Mokgethi said they were having monthly organ donation drives on online webinars about donor identification, donor management and training of transplant co-ordinators at regional and district hospitals. We are increasing the donor pool to include other regions from the North West,” Mokgethi said. But Bloom said: “I think these figures underestimate the true situation as it leaves out the long waiting periods for many patients to be diagnosed by a specialist before they are placed on the waiting lists for surgery. “Insufficient theatre time and the shortage of ICU beds are the major reasons for the cancellation of operations. “Disruption from Covid-19 and the partial closure of the hospital due to the fire in April last year are other factors. “It’s particularly upsetting that many children suffer from the surgery delays. This highlights the need to fully reopen the hospital as soon as possible, and to expand the operating theatre and ICU capacity to drastically cut the surgery waiting lists,” he said. Pretoria News