Pretoria - Opposition parties continued to send messages of support to the family of Struggle stalwart and ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte late into yesterday after the 68-year-old died in the early hours of the morning. Duarte lost a battle with cancer. DA Federal Council leader Helen Zille described her as a dedicated member of the ANC and said: “The DA extends its sincere condolences to the family and friends of ANC stalwart Jessie Duarte, who passed away following a short illness. Duarte was a dedicated member of the ANC and held a number of positions in the South African party-political landscape over many years. “She was well known for being a fiery character who had worked closely with Walter Sisulu and Nelson Mandela and who held various posts in the party and government before standing in as secretary-general for the suspended Ace Magashule.” The EFF said Duarte was a fierce, firm and forthright person who paid her dues in the Struggle for liberation in South Africa. “Duarte will be remembered fondly by many young men and women who passed through her hands and grew through her guidance. “The ANC has lost a committed member.” The EFF sent the party’s condolences to her family, friends, colleagues and the ANC. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said the trade union was deeply saddened by the passing of Duarte. “The union will forever remember Duarte as a champion of women empowerment, who was a solid advocate for social justice and a formidable leader. “In her years as national leader in the ANC, she worked very closely with the federation to unite the alliance and keep it focused on its work and commitments to the people despite challenges. “She believed in and strove to build a strong alliance,” said Pamla. In a statement, the governing party said Duarte was both a tower of strength to the organisation as well as a matriarch and pillar of her family. “Comrade Jesse was undergoing cancer treatment and had been on medical leave since November,” said ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe. He added that her death was a great loss to her family, the democratic movement and the country as a whole. “She dedicated her entire life to the struggle for a united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic, prosperous and just South Africa. “A committed gender activist, she relentlessly championed the emancipation and empowerment of women. Her life and work reflected a consistent commitment to advancing the rights of the poor and marginalised,” Mabe said. Duarte was buried yesterday. Pretoria News