Pretoria - Bakwena Platinum Corridor Concessionaire has promised to continue placing great importance on the safety of road users, as well as their experience of the N1/N4 route. In this regard, Bakwena said regular rehabilitation was ongoing to ensure that the roads for which it was responsible were kept in a condition that was safe. “Well maintained roads have economic and social benefits for individual road users and the country as a whole,” Bakwena said. According to Bakwena, the ongoing 18-month N4 rehabilitation works taking place between interchanges are progressing well. The work is being carried out in approximate 5km blocks. Work on the Ga-Rankuwa to R80 interchange started in March, and will be concluded this month and during August. From Rosslyn interchange to Dr Swanepoel, the upgrade will be completed during September and October. The works between Majakaneng and Bapong have been delayed due to the winter embargo, and will commence in September when the weather becomes warmer to ensure that a quality road surface is delivered. The proposed rehabilitation project on the N1 between Pienaarsrivier and Bela Bela will take place from this month to July 2023. During the rehabilitation process there will be multiple lane closures of approximately 5km for 12 weeks at a time, which will result in the traffic mobility being severely affected. Delays can be expected along these sections, particularly during peak, month-end weekends and holiday periods. “We would like to assure our road users that we are continuously working to keep these delays to a minimum and to return the road to full capacity as soon as possible. We encourage road users to plan their journeys accordingly to accommodate these delays,” said Solomon Kganyago, the chief operating officer at Bakwena. “Road user safety remains as always our top priority, and in order to ensure this, we request that you partner with us and adhere to the traffic accommodation road signs, obey speed restrictions that have been implemented and exercise caution and patience while we undertake these critical rehabilitation works that will not only improve the overall safety of the road surface, but will also enhance your driving experience along the N1/N4 route.” Pretoria News