Pretoria - A fresh wave of fear is spreading across Gauteng – and the country, after masked men shot at revellers at a Ga-Rankuwa, Pretoria tavern, killing two and injuring seven. According to the police, gunmen driving a silver Polo vehicle randomly opened fire at people who were sitting outside the outlet on Friday night, killing two and leaving others injured. The incident, which brings the number of dead at township drinking holes to 24 from trigger-happy criminals, happened on Friday just before midnight, spreading fear, as these are what communities regard as recreational spots. Although the police, speaking on Saturday, insisted there was no reason to draw parallels between the Soweto, Katlehong and KwaZulu-Natal shootings, the general consensus among communities was that there was a link. Speaking from Pretoria yesterday, Sello Machate said: “We are aware these have been happening all along, but the methods – high calibre guns, and the modus operandi, a lack of plausible motive, tells us we are under attack.” The police would not confirm the type of gun used, nor would they be drawn into agreeing these were linked, but Olievenhoutbosch tavern owner Bra Make said they knew what was going on. “The police and politicians are either in denial or trying to protect us from being afraid, but as it is, we are petrified. “We have no one to turn to as all authorities refuse to provide intelligence and protection. At the same time we know our people and their need for the outlets.” He said while taverns were seen as predominantly places to drink, they served a bigger purpose in communities where people had little to do and even less hope. “Here is where they sit together over a common activity, where they socialise, where they are allowed to forget about the mess the country is in, like lack of unemployment, a failing economy, rising food costs and delinquent youth. “They listen to music and each other, eat and drink, smoke and basically have a place to escape… that in in essence what we provide.” Police spokesperson Dimakatso Sello said the attackers remained at large by yesterday, adding: “The motive of the shooting is unknown and police will be investigating two cases of murder and seven of attempted murder.” She again stressed that people should not panic, saying the recent one from Mamelodi was linked to a love interest and/or debt, so a motive existed and was known. But community leader Dolly Mawela said it was clear there was a planned massacre being unleashed, and taverns, which had a lot of people in one area at a time, were perfect targets. He said: “They are also drunk, relaxed and defenceless. They will not run, retaliate, and these criminals know owners who are armed, are at home sleeping at around the time they can strike.” Bouncers, he added, were not armed with more than a stick. “We could, and indeed must, even look closely at the Scenery Park death of children. One day we will be forced to make the links between all these deaths, because, coincidences do not exist.” Meanwhile, Mawela urged anyone with information about the incident or the suspects to report it at the nearest police station, or call the Crime Stop Hotline at 08600 10111. “All information received will be treated as strictly confidential.” Pretoria News