Pretoria -An amount of R1.7 billion has been allocated towards infrastructure development in Gauteng schools, according to Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. He was delivering the department’s 2022/23 budget speech. The Progressive Student Movement said this week that schools in Ga-Rankuwa, Soshanguve, Mabopane, Hammanskraal and Winterveldt were the most hard hit by a lack of furniture, learning and teaching materials and infrastructure. Classrooms were also overcrowded. It threatened to close schools that were affected the most, unless the department addressed the situation. Lesufi said the Covid-19 pandemic had revealed the need to intensify the development and maintenance of school infrastructure. “The department has a portfolio of over 2 207 schools and 17 teachers’ centres that contribute towards the support and fulfilment of teaching and learning across the province. More than 80% of these facilities were built pre-1994, and the physical conditions require major restorative work to keep them in a functional state.” To address all maintenance-related challenges, Lesufi said the department would require a preventative maintenance strategy to prevent the dilapidation of the assets. “However, the budgets received are insufficient to respond to the increasing maintenance demands and at the same time cater for new schools and additional learning spaces required. “In the 2022/23 financial year, the department anticipates adding a further 400 refurbished smart classrooms, where it will roll-out smart technologies to township high schools.” He added: “Township schools have had to accommodate learners above their capacity. Suburban schools have also reached their capacity as a result of the growth of the black middle class in existing and new middle-income housing areas.” He said the number of schools built per year was not meeting demand. However, the department was working with the Department of Infrastructure Development and other agencies to accelerate the delivery of new schools. The department has a budget of R59.7 billion. Compensation of employees amounted to R42bn, or 70.8% of the total budget. In addition to the budget, public special school education was allocated R4.8bn, examination and education-related services were allocated R2.7bn, independent schools received R1bn, and early childhood development R1.9bn. Pretoria News