Pretoria - Winter season is here, and as people try by all means to keep themselves warm, this can turn into a disaster as has been the norm in previous years. In Pretoria, fires reported or logged in the City’s system during winter last year were 523 in May and 625 in June. In July there were 729, while during August 704 calls were made, said City of Tshwane emergency services spokesperson Charles Mabaso. There was a need for extreme caution, Mabaso said, and people had to be careful when using alternative heating sources as they tried to stay warm. He said: “Check with your local fire department on the legality of using fuel heaters in your residential area. Be sure to fill fuel heaters outside, and be sure they have cooled down before you fill them. “Place heaters at least 1m away from flammable materials. Make sure the floor and nearby walls are properly insulated and only use the type of fuel prescribed for your heating unit and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.” Ashes had to be stored in metal containers outside and away from the home; open flames kept away from walls, furniture, drapery and flammable items. “Keep a screen in front of the fireplace.” Mabaso advised people to have their heating units inspected and cleaned by a certified specialist once a year. To avoid being a statistic of winter fires, Mabaso advised people to make sure wiring does not run under rugs, over nails or across high-traffic areas. “Do not overload extension cords or outlets. If you need to plug in two or three appliances, get a UL approved unit with built-in circuit breakers to prevent sparks and short circuits,” said Mabaso. In case of a fire, family members are advised to stay close to the floor where the air is safer, he said, and, it was important to clean out storage areas and not let trash, such as old newspapers and magazines, accumulate. Mabaso said all settlements (formal, informal, and rural) are likely to have fires because most fire incidents can be attributed to human behaviour. “The likelihood of more than one structure or dwelling involved in a fire is high in informal settlements. Plastic View in Pretoria East has experienced more devastating fires than many informal settlements in the seven regions of the City in recent times.” Mabaso said the City’s winter contingency plan is first and foremost proactive, in that they roll out a public awareness campaign that includes campaigns at places of learning (early-learning centres, schools) and distribution of fire and life safety awareness media on various media platforms. “Awareness campaigns in vulnerable communities like informal settlements, working with stakeholders and partners like a fire protection association to encourage the making of fire breaks in agricultural parts of the City, and conducting fire safety inspections and working with other City departments to conduct clean-up/grass cutting to lessen chances of runaway fires is on the programme.” Operational teams remain on high alert, he said, to respond to emergency fire situations when they get reported, and, the 107 toll free number was always available. “Operational members are placed on standby in case of major incidents that may require activation of additional human resources.” Pretoria News