The Hawks have arrested three Gauteng company directors over their involvement in a R3 million Eastern Cape Department of Health Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) procurement fraud scandal. Director of Vortex, Jayslin Naidoo, 43, directors of Prometheus, Xolile Winston Zakhe and Richard Aron Meyer, both 46, appeared in the East London Commercial Crimes Court on Wednesday last week, on charges of fraud and forgery, and were released on R10 000 bail each. The matter had been investigated by the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said the trio allegedly misrepresented documents to win PPE tenders amounting to R3 million. “The SIU investigation in the Eastern Cape health department revealed that the Gauteng based Vortex and Prometheus directors provided fraudulent documents to secure tenders that were restricted to the residents of the Eastern Cape, as per tender specifications. “The SIU was, in terms of Proclamation R23 of 2020, directed by President Cyril Ramaphosa to investigate allegations of corruption, maladministration, malpractice and payments made by state institutions relating to PPE procurement together with the conducts of state employees.” The SIU has been hot on the heels of politicians, government officials and company directors across the country, who were involved in the scramble for PPE tenders during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic which prompted demand for the equipment. The Hawks have made a series of arrests ever since, charging perpetrators for corruption and fraud ranging from bogus documents and rushed processes in signing of the paperwork. In the Western Cape, three municipal officials and one other man were arrested for defrauding the Matzikama municipality. On Thursday, Izak Edward Jenner, 50, Aldrick Ivan Hendricks, 52, Jafta Booysen, 51, and Nicolaas Jacobus Klazen, 50, appeared in the Vredendal Magistrate’s Court following their arrest. The group members, charged with fraud, are accused of colluding with service provider, Duneco CC, which had irregularly received a tender in April 2020. In Limpopo, there have been calls by political organisations for the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to prosecute all those implicated in the multi-million rand PPE scandal that gripped the province. The SIU recommended in January that criminal charges be laid against Limpopo Department of Health head Thokozani Mhlongo and chief financial officer Justice Mudau for their role in the PPE scandal. The investigation revealed a range of offences in the procurement of the PPEs. Mhlongo and Mudau are currently going through an internal disciplinary hearing. Pretoria News