Blessed with the rare ability to churn out a hit in any genre under the house music umbrella, DJ Lucco has switched to amapiano. He is releasing a new EP under his label Oldskul Music, titled The New Journey. It is expected to hit the digital music stores during June or July. In this “new journey” he features Nastee Nando, K-Sugah, Warry, DJ Skhu, Seejay Seejay and King La. DJ Lucco, real name Lucky Sithole, was born in Zithobeni near Bronkhorstspruit and later moved to Mntoni in Middelburg. He is a qualified personal trainer and teaches boxing at a gym. Generally, he calls himself a fitness fanatic. His father motivated him to venture into music when he was 5. “He bought me my first piano, but I was not really interested until I was 12. “That was when I realised music runs in my family. I started rapping with friends and recorded a few songs. That kept me going until 2009 when I turned to music production,” he said. “My father had a shebeen and it was nice seeing people dancing and having fun. I also realised he loved music and had been collecting music of the 1980s, and that inspired me a lot to make music.” Since then, DJ Lucco has had a few hit songs, including Take it Back (Uthandonyana Lwakho) with DJ Style (aka Mr style). He said: “The most special song for me is Side Chick because it’s the only well-known song from my songs where I did the vocals.” While he works well in the team whether in or out of the studio, DJ Lucco singles out his short temper as his weakness. “But I’m outgrowing that with maturity and emotional intelligence and understanding that people are different and work differently.” It’s his love of music that has seen him overcome various obstacles over the year, including the temper. He considers himself a healer who heals people and changes their lives through music. His favourite part about being a musician is making people dance. The only downside is that music makes you travel a lot and keeps you away from loved ones.” Asked what inspired him to make music, he said: “I have to be inspired by things around me before I hit the studio. I like doing my projects alone, then go to the studio to record with my guy Nastee Nando or my other friends.” Given a chance, he would love collaborating with the likes of Murumba Pitch and Nkosazana Daughter because “they have unique voices and have created their own style, which I like”. On a wider spectrum, he looks up to DJ Maphorisa and Grammy Award- winner Black Coffee. He said of both icons that “they are forever relevant, regardless of their age”. DJ Lucco’s last word to his followers is: “Let us push together and grow together and let’s not forget to go to school; education remains the important tool.”  Pretoria News