Pretoria - Two Pretoria beauties who made it into the 2022 Miss South Africa beauty pageant are all about creating platforms for thought leaders to share their knowledge and providing empathetic service-driven leadership to their communities. Miss South Africa Organisation announced its top 30 finalists for this year’s edition and among them are two women from Pretoria. Mamelodi resident Pearl Ntshehi, 25, who also made the top 30 last year, said she was taking part once again as she had grown immensely from being part of the pageant. Ntshehi, a candidate attorney, said she was returning with even greater certainty with regards to the legacy she wanted to leave behind and with more confidence in her own voice. “As Miss South Africa, I will instil this certainty and confidence in the young women who are from communities similar to mine. I want to use this platform to inspire conversations and actions about how we can celebrate and enhance the beauty that exists in our communities, while responding to the pertinent issues that plague them, such as unemployment. “The most important part is showing that beauty pageants are not about the glitz and glamour, but about showcasing the story behind the incredible women that walk on stage, their passions, strength, humanitarianism and philanthropic work,” she added. Ntshehi, who describes herself as buoyant, resilient and relatable, said she was proud to represent Gauteng as it had its own sense of culture, and ubuntu, with its communities being very resilient. The second beauty to represent the capital city is Lebogang Mahlangu, 26, from Soshanguve. She said she entered the pageant this year as she believed in the potential and value of the youth and women of South Africa. Mahlangu said she knew that if the youth and women of this country were encouraged and empowered to take charge, the collective could create self-sustaining solutions to the problems facing our communities. “Miss South Africa gives me a platform to champion South Africa’s potential and help see it become a reality. Pageants give women the platform to drive change and be represented no matter who they are or what they look like. “I believe everyone wants to thrive, but right now, not all of us can. As women I believe we are to bring hope, so that our people never lose sight of where we can be; and how we can help find solutions even with the little we may have, so that the fire never dies.“ Mahlangu, a procurement specialist, said despite the many social ills plaguing the community of Soshanguve where she comes from, it still reminded her of the hope the youth had for their future. Pretoria News