Pretoria - The SAPS is investigating a burglary during which the Centurion Licensing Centre was broken into and 35 computers stolen on Monday night. The break-in has led to the disruption and suspension of driving licence renewals and registration, as well as the licensing of motor vehicles at the centre. However, the centre continued to render the application and testing for driving licences, and testing for learner licences. The City if Tshwane has urged residents to use alternative centres, such as Rayton, Akasia, Bronkhorstspruit and Waltloo. In 2017, the City of Tshwane had a spate of licensing centre robberies just days apart. In July 4 of that year, the Centurion centre was broken into and computers, camera equipment, and screens taken. The year before, Akasia was also broken into, but nothing was taken, thanks to swift response by the SAPS and Tshwane Metro Police Department. Days prior to the Akasia incident, Waltloo was also robbed of valuable equipment used to renew licences. Then on June 20, it was hit by another robbery during which security personnel and officials were assaulted and injured. The perpetrators stole an undisclosed amount of money. On May 24 this year, three armed thieves attacked and robbed Eskom technicians while they were executing their duties in Mabopane Block E. The two technicians were attacked while they were inspecting meter boxes. The perpetrators demanded wallets and cellphones and fled in a vehicle without a registration number. In a separate incident in Mabopane, a technician was robbed of a cellphone and money at a substation. On May 25, another technician was stabbed while he and his colleagues were installing meters in Nomzamo, Soweto. The technician, who was stabbed in the face and chest, was treated at a medical facility and is recovering at home. Eskom’s Safety, Health, Environment and Quality manager, Kith Maitisa, condemned such acts of violence against their employees in Gauteng. He said the workers were often assaulted, intimidated and placed in extreme situations such as being held hostage by some community members. This was unacceptable, he added. “This display of aggression and violence by communities often leads to employees suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. It also results in delays in repair work and project completion, further extending the period that residents spend without electricity. Maitisa said Eskom had reported all these incidents to the police, and would co-operate with the police to assist with the investigations. Pretoria News